So now let's talk
about another routing policy
called the IP-based Routing
which is very intuitive to think about
because you're going to define the routing based
on the client IP addresses.
In Route 53, you're going to define a list of CIDRs,
they are IP ranges for your clients,
and you're going to say, based on the CIDR
which location the traffic should be sent to.
So the use cases will be to optimize performance
because you know the IP ahead of time
or to reduce network costs
because you know where the IPs are coming from.
So an example is that if you know
that you have a specific internet provider
and they are using a specific CIDR of IP addresses
you can route them
to a specific endpoint thanks to this strategy.
So let's go for an example.
In Route 53, I'm going to define two locations
with two different CIDR blocks.
As you can see, one start with 203
and the other one start with 200 and the defined IP ranges.
Now we are going to link these locations
to a specific record.
So for example.com we're going to have location one.
So the first CIDR block to send
to the value 1.2.3.4,
and the second location, the CIDR block number two,
to send it to 5.6.7.8.
And these represents the public IP of two EC2 instances.
Now, as you would expect, if a user comes in
with a specific IP that is part
of the location one CIDR block, they will be directed
to the first EC2 instance of IP 1.2.3.4,
and the user B, with a second IP address
that belongs to the location two,
will be redirected and will have a DNS query response
to the EC2 instance of IP 5.6.7.8.
And that's it for IP based routing.
It's very simple and I hope you liked it.
I will see you in the next lecture.